[Music]
everybody welcome to impact theory i'm
here with devin harris uh devin i am
super excited to have you on man thanks
for joining me
yeah and i'm i'm excited as well i've
been following you from afar so it's
great to connect here
definitely dude and it is super rare
that i begin an interview with a quote
from somebody's bio uh but this hit me
so powerfully and it really encapsulates
what i think is
so exciting about the way that you think
so i'm going to start with this so this
is straight from your bio the greatest
gift devin harris ever received was the
belief that a positive attitude and a
never say die philosophy would carry him
farther than a sense of injustice and a
heart filled with anger
so i want to know man how how did you
come to that conclusion obviously
growing up in one of the most violent
parts of
kingston jamaica that isn't sort of an
obvious
um way to think so how did you start
thinking like that
it's a really good question i'm you know
i'm not i'm not sure when that uh when
that flip switched in my mind and i
often
blame or
my grandmother for the way i thought i
spent my early years with her outside
kings and her rural parish or saint
elizabeth she told me these amazing
stories about soldiers and how they
could uh perform these amazing feet and
not get injured were the ones that kind
of lit up my five-year-old mind my
little imagination but more than that it
inspired me to want to do things that
other people thought were impossible or
just incredibly difficult
yeah that it's so interesting to me
because almost certainly people will
come into this and they'll have read the
headline that will announce that you're
one of the the original jamaican bob's
letters that the movie cool runnings was
based on and so the punch line here is
pretty extraordinary you go to an elite
military academy uh you end up being one
of four people on this bobsledding team
and you know it's obviously
extraordinary that you guys
born in a country with no snow and then
you know being able to compete in the
winter olympics
so it's uh it's pretty crazy but i i
really want to dive into one what it was
like growing up we were growing up
because right now we're living through
an era where the sort of pull yourself
up by your bootstraps is
it's really a divisive statement but it
sits at the core of how i changed my own
life it sits at the core of so many
people's transformations and i just
really want to understand how you began
to develop that so if it started grandma
planted a seed how did that like
dreaming and looking at these big houses
and you know how does that begin to take
shape in your young mind
so i'm 15 years old i just started
running track and no i'm from jamaica
but i'm not one of the sprinters
unlucky me right um but it's 1979 tom
and it's a year before the moscow
olympics and abc wild weather sports had
a program called road to moscow and in
it they're featured athletes from all
over the world different disciplines
telling their stories and so on now when
we think of olympic athletes we tend to
think of these super human beings
but what i was seeing in that program
were these average ordinary people
with extraordinary dreams
i'm like crap you know basically then
you know this show is telling me that
anyone can become an olympian
within reason if they have these
extraordinary dreams and an equally
extraordinary desire to go after those
dreams and so by extension
you could literally go accomplish
anything in your life if you have these
extraordinary dreams and an equal
extraordinary desire to up to achieve
them so that really as i just said you
know built on the the seed
that my grandmother planted
and so i'm i'm living in the middle of
the hood and i'm dreaming about being an
army officer and and going to sandhurst
and and competing in the olympics
admittedly not as a bobsledder that just
kind of happened
so that is um it's so interesting to me
when you begin to like piece the things
together and i certainly j um genetics
is going to play a part right so
something tells me that you and i are
both sort of optimistic by nature
um ambitious certainly
seems to fit you quite well um was your
grandmother saying things like you could
be a soldier like that or you could live
in a house like that one day did you
have any adults that were telling you
that or are you one of those people that
pulled yourself out of the matrix
yeah no no i didn't have that so you
know unfortunately my grandmother saw
none of this she died even before i left
elementary school and it's kind of
uh you know and when i when i
maybe the next book i write i'm gonna i
did dedicate my last book to her but
what i really should have said was that
her greatest ambition at the time was
for me to learn to read
never written over written a couple of
books
you know so that was that that was kind
of what she wanted to tell me these
stories i don't know if she had a plan
in mind but that was the impact that she
had on me
so when you think about the inner cities
now so you live in new york obviously
there are areas that are just ravaged um
what what do you think
is ultimately the thing that will help
people to change their circumstances um
so it's like you can't allow yourself to
settle and i think it's so easy to do
that right because you know stepping out
of
the environment that you find yourself
in to go get that thing across the
street that looks so much better and you
know it's a much better life
is difficult because you feel so out of
place
you feel
you know almost not so worthy and you
have to do
you know i call it a real job on your
mind
you have to convince yourself
that you deserve this if somebody were
to ask me what is the secret to success
it's you know the will smith notion of
i'll die on this treadmill and that to
me is is one of the most powerful quotes
i've ever heard you know he's talking
about what separated him from other
people and he was like you know
i get on a treadmill i know what my goal
is and i'll die before i'll get off this
treadmill before i reach my goal and i
just thought man any [__] that's
willing to go that hard on a treadmill
like you know that they're gonna succeed
in life so yeah when i hear people talk
about that i i am
i get drawn in hard so what does it mean
to you to keep on pushing or to have a
do or die
well
in my mind it's not like i have a choice
but to achieve the goal that i set for
myself uh you know and so of course you
know keep on pushing has a bobsled
analogy and i tell you my first boss had
run i crawled in and slept behind a guy
who has never driven one before
and
people don't believe this because i joke
around a lot i'm scared of speed and
hike right that's bombsledding and i
just remember being terrified
and i remember saying to myself if i die
i die
but i'm going
there's just no way i'm not going down
this track and you know what three runs
in i was scared to death
but hoped
and and so that's kind of the the
mentality that i approach the things
that i really want is like
i don't know how i'm going to do it
i just know i'm going to do it and
there's just
there's just no way that it's not going
to happen and so i just i throw myself
into it
do or die
now you come across as super sweet and i
know when people ask you which of the um
bobsledders was based on you in the
movie you always say the guy who was a
dreamer
but he also happened to be the guy that
was super aggressive and and identified
as the sort of mean one
is there that gear for you like do you
have a level of intensity and ferocity
that you can switch into or are you
always as
sweet as you come across in interviews
well definitely when i when i compete i
am a completely different person i i
don't even recognize that guy
um in what way can you be specific
just just i'm i'm i'm way more intense
than your brother just way more um you
know he was an intense guy i am you can
multiply that by 10. when i when i'm on
the line you know i i speak about bob
selling all the time like when people
watch american football they see the
aggression because they see a guy going
up and hitting another guy
bobsledders are just as aggressive it's
not as apparent because you're pushing a
sled
but there's so much contempt that you
have for the sled at the start you want
to put the push the crap out of it right
um
i get
you know you don't see that level of
intensity on my face when i'm working on
another another goal but
there i i do get singularly focused
um
maybe to a fart
do you know i was just gonna ask you do
you like that about yourself or do you
actually think it's a problem
i like that about myself you know but
you know all of us we spend time
or we should anyway kind of looking back
on your life and so so this is why i
would encapsulate
you know those early years trying to get
out of olympic garden so it's kind of
like me being on one end of a
rose garden
trying to get to the other end and all
i'm focused on
is how i'm going to get to the other end
and get into the other end and i never
paused
really to smell the roses
and so if there's one thing i would
change really is
that ability to kind of take a a few
seconds of you know sniff a rules and
then move forward so yeah so to a fault
in that sense i you know i remember just
having these conversations with my
friends from high school and they're
talking about all this [__] that they
were doing i'm like really when
really when and they're like well where
were you like
i was training i was busy you know so i
i do get that singularly focused
it's interesting so i take a slightly
different take on that and maybe because
i don't have kids i'm not entirely sure
one of the most contentious posts that
i've put up in a long time
was me saying this is a competition
referring basically to life like if you
want to get something extraordinary
you're going to have to [__] work
your ass off and you've got to come at
it so hard with so much intensity and i
and the like you know final phrase in
the post was this is a competition
and
people flipped out and i was like
i don't understand people that fear
actually i do understand because for a
long time when i was young i feared
competition because i didn't think i
could win i didn't think i could get
good enough to win and when i didn't
think i could get good enough to win
then i was like oh yo yo competition
it's ugly it's gnarly it brings out the
worst in people then when i realized
i can actually improve i can get better
the more energy i put into something
just like anybody else the more time and
energy you put into it the better that
you get doesn't mean that you know
genetic gifts don't play a role they do
for sure
but i can get better at something and
once i embrace that and realize man if
you can channel that intensity if you
can
love that about yourself if you can find
the joy in just all out pursuit of
something then
stop stopping and smelling the roses i'm
not saying don't like if that if you're
motivated to stop and smell a rose man
you should stop and smell a rose but i'm
just saying if in that moment your
motivation is i'm going to tear through
these rose bushes and i'm imagining you
getting ripped and cut by all the
brambles and the thorns as you're raging
through this thing
for me
the ability to sometimes smell a rose
and sometimes tear ass through a bramble
and accept all the you know blood and
sweat and tears i get as more if i'm
completely honest i get a lot more joy
and a sense of self out of
being willing and able to [__] tear
through a bramble and take the sort of
cuts that other people just aren't
willing to deal with
yeah and i'm absolutely that way too but
i think that
you know
we have to strive to live a really
fulfilled life a rounded life you know
and i think it's so it's really
important
because there's nothing that i'm going
to allow prevent me from reaching that
goal
but as a goal
i'm like
whatever that goal is that i'm pursuing
right there's nothing that's going to
prevent me from from achieving a goal
but i think
you know if we can think holistically
i'm not sure how
because maybe i've never done it oh how
to mess the two this is the intellectual
side of me saying hey you know it's okay
to smell the roses i haven't figured out
how to do it yet
because have you really not i mean when
i look when i look at your life you've
done a lot of extraordinary things that
are clearly engaging with other people
trying to help other people all of that
to me seems like savoring this human
experience do you not see those things
that way
oh yeah oh i mean
i guess now there is there's
you know as they
the shift
as the focus has shifted from man i need
to get out of the ghettos to go do
something and now
i'm not done
but i'm on the way and i think
the way i think is hey help others
along the way take who you can take
advise who you can advise you can't
necessarily put everybody on your back
but you can you can you know if you
imagine you're walking along the street
and you meet a guy hey you know you need
to drop that and and that will lighten
your load or good job keep on going that
kind of thing um that's what i'm doing
now as i continue to look for ways to to
grow
and if you had to define what a rounded
life means because i want to get back to
this idea that they're sort of
myopically focused on a goal and going
just super super hard for that and then
there is a rounded life you said two
things you should live a fulfilled life
you should live a rounded life um can
you define fulfillment can you define
well-rounded
yeah which as you know success is such
an individual such a personal journey
but for me it would be yes to accomplish
those things those trappings that the
world see as success
but at the same time
recognize quite frankly those things are
fleeting so what do you have left you
have family right like i'm i'm married i
have five kids i'm a homebody you know i
don't roll around with the kids anymore
they're a little bit older you know i
don't fool around with my son anymore
he's much stronger than me you know but
but uh just being able to
like last
summer this uh well you know last july i
was in europe with my with my kids and i
loved traveling through europe but the
best part of that was just being there
with my kids
you know that for me brings the level of
fulfillment um just being able to
um
share an inspirational word or a word of
encouragement with somebody else and and
for them to come and say man you know
what i come off stage and this guy says
you know i felt like you were talking to
me that brings fulfillment so all the
other trappings that i am myopically
focused on are important to me but being
able to
touch a life
and bring joy and hope and inspiration
to that life is also important that
makes in my mind a fulfilled life i love
that when you're spending time with kids
that are in the inner cities
what tools do you give them to
do what you did you made reference
earlier to the lamp post um it's
probably worth telling people what you
were doing on that lamp post um and then
i'd love to know if that's the kind of
thing that you're encouraging kids to do
or you know just what that toolkit is
that you hand to people yeah so i was
doing the d word and you know when i
when i speak live i ask people that were
you doing drugs no man i was dreaming
that all the people were right i just
kind of stood there and dream and and i
think that's you know who's at napoleon
hill that says there's a starting point
to all worthwhile achievements
and
yeah so when i'm speaking to kids and
disadvantaged communities i'm like hey
have a dream find a dream and i know a
lot of them won't want to be
professional athletes or
and that's fine
um i challenge them and encourage them
to dream but i also encourage them to
to do as as to pursue an education get
educated because that gives you
a leg up it gives you a level of
confidence and is going to open doors
for you that
you won't be able to would not be able
to open otherwise right and i think
i agree with you so violently on
education that i'd love for you to take
a minute
explain why it opens doors how does an
education open doors i know people think
this is self-evident but i think the
reason people don't pursue it they
really don't understand why it
think first of all is that it
gives you a level of confidence that you
cannot have if you
are not educated you know i wanna so it
really does
start there it gives you
that sense that hey there let's say it's
a job that there's a job over there that
i can go apply for because of
i have gained this knowledge and i have
a piece of paper uh to show for it but
more importantly i think is it's the
fact that
we know that lifelong learning is is
really the key to continued success and
if you're
if you have a personal history of
uh putting in the discipline putting in
the work to learn
you start recognizing that hey you know
that thing that i did in high school i
can now apply quite frankly i could not
have i could not wait to leave high
school i never wanted to see another
book
right i thought i'm going to go join the
army i'm going to run around the
countryside i'm going to shoot some guns
right
and at first i did all of that but tom
they gave me a big stack of books i'm
like [__] they tricked me
but
after a while you realize man you know
this learning thing is really important
because it really does it opens up your
mind as well because it challenges you
gets you to think in different ways
and
just
again allows you to
have the confidence that
you know if if i don't know this thing
that i want to go pursue i can go learn
learn about it and then go pursue it
all right so back to the toolkit we've
got we're teaching them to dream and
we're making sure that they get educated
what else
um
something that is really hard to do
walk your own path
uh and by that i mean
if you are hanging out with a guy or
girl or a group of people who
are heading in the direction that is
opposite of your dreams you need to say
hey see you later i'm going to be over
here so if you want to
join me feel free
and that is very difficult for most
people to do especially young people the
peer pressure is
is great but that's one of the things
they have to do what do you say to
somebody who's like look man i'm growing
up in the inner cities uh the world is
stacked against me people don't want me
to succeed i actually had a kid whose
mother told him the world does not want
people like you to succeed and i was
like what is happening
so
the things really are stacked against
them they've grown up in poverty they've
had a terrible education
they don't have any connections they
don't know how to raise money like they
they look they have legitimate excuses
to stay where they are what do you say
to somebody like that
everybody has legitimate excuses if they
were there that's that's the the [__] of
life um but i think that
when you develop this
when you
trick yourself lie to yourself you just
develop this belief that you know i so
the term the words i used to use to
myself thomas i have no idea how i'm
going to do it
but i just have to
you know and so if you
i could argue that the world was stacked
against me as well and i had no idea how
it was going to happen but you just
you don't listen to the guys who say man
you're from the hood you can't be in the
army as an officer right
um
we have definitely a
a social construct in jamaica that would
would support that as well right
um
but you just you ignore that you ignore
that i heard a guy
i don't remember who he was he was in
hollywood a black guy and he said i just
i just had to lie to myself
so that i could succeed in hollywood
right and i think
you know that kid in the inner city or
in rural wherever
who has
uh
supposedly the deck stacked against him
and maybe even people telling him that
have to create i heard uh listen to
david goggin talking about just you have
to create this other story this other
guy who can go accomplish this
there are examples there are tons of
examples and now unlike when we were
growing up we had the internet with so
uh much information at your fingertips
and examples of people who came from
exactly the same circumstances or worse
and so
the question is man if they can do it
why can't i if i'm watching abc wild
world of sport and this person is
competing at the olympic games training
to compete at the olympic games and have
the whole host of problems in their
personal lives that they're overcoming
i mean just doing that alone would be a
miracle but doing that and competing at
the olympic games i'm like
i can do it too why not
the what's the worst that can happen you
fail oh well
get back on the horse keep on pushing
talk to me about learning so one of the
coolest things in your story was seeing
you guys that first year in the olympics
in the background like trying to watch
all the other teams to try to learn what
does it take to really get great at
something and you guys did it so
quickly i mean you really didn't have a
long time to prepare for the olympics um
how did you how did you guys do it
what's the secret to getting good fast
um
commitment man you have to be committed
to just doing what you need to do
when you need to do it
even when you don't feel like doing it
you know my focus was
just on learning how to push a boxlet
and getting comfortable working through
my fears because i was really scared of
getting down right do you have a dream
for working through your fears like if
you're afraid of speed and heights um
obviously i love your sort of
breakthrough moment of if it kills me it
kills me but do you have breathing
techniques or is it all just yo i have a
goal and i'm going to do it no matter
what and i don't allow myself to back
down
yeah yeah so part of it is
especially in a race it's so much easier
because it's just like i turn into this
other person like i don't even know who
he is
but as
even so in my first olympics i was a
pusher then i became a driver on the
other two
and
i'm nervous
leading up to
the moment when they say the start is
clear for jamaica
it's work time
this was work time so you just go
um i think
whether you're bob studying or you're
trying to sell
something to a
to a client um you just you just have to
make yourself do it you have to make
yourself pick up that 100 pound phone
and made the phone call um
man you might screw it up but you every
time you do it you learn something you
become more comfortable and you may
never be totally comfortable and that's
the thing with fears you may never be
totally comfortable with them but they
become manageable um
and in my mind if that's what you need
to do in order to achieve that goal yet
so that's what you do so yeah we we just
kind of committed ourselves you know
watching
the very good people and the not so good
people
trying to
figure out what is what are they doing
that i'm not doing what can i pick up
what can i apply to myself and i do that
all the time right as a speaker i watch
everybody i watch a politician and i
watch
you know
john doe being interviewed on the side
of the street where there's bad english
you know but he may say something i'm
like i like that
um i'm going to use it but i'm going to
say it this way kind of thing you know
you you you study it's about lifelong
learning
and what in terms of competition or i
guess anything but what's the power of
visualization do you use that as a
technique
i do
i've i've been using visualization
before i knew what visualization was i
used it in high school
as i told you i'm not a sprinter i ran
800 and 1500 meters and so we have a
thing called sports day
and i ran the 400 it's a sprint race i
always win
um but i know i'm not the fastest guy
but i i remember one particular race
calm
that night the night before i didn't
really sleep i was in a stupor
because all i did that entire night was
think of myself running every meter of
that race
and then i woke up the next one and got
to school earlier i walked through the
race
and i won
and when i joined and started bobsled
and they call it visualization
but it's important man it's it's
important on so many different levels
right one it it gives you it it puts you
in that place that you have done it
before so it really
helps you to improve your performance
but but also if you really believe in
the law of attraction it's one of those
things that
as you
put yourself in the places of that
person having this thing achieving this
thing living this thing the
the powers that be the universe brings
it to you so it's a really important
part of successful living in every
aspect
is what do you think about um the law of
attraction do you think it's about it
aligns you so you take the right actions
or do you think that the universe is
actually giving you something because
you've asked for it
well
good question because a lot of people
when they hear
that and heard i just said think that
you just kind of sit on your sofa and
you
visualize or you meditate and it comes
maybe i don't know that hasn't happened
to me yet
maybe i should try that maybe not um i'm
too impatient to tell you awaiting so so
dude what it does is that it allows you
to take what i call inspired action
because as you're visualizing and you
start
feeling the sense that you can be this
person
you can become this army i saw this
bobsledder
then you you just
and you and i know that it takes so a
tremendous amount of work to achieve any
goal that you set for yourself and it
and that in itself can
uh
demotivate you because that's a ton load
of work and pain and suffering man
but when you have it i guess in here and
in here
then you just work and then i think
that's how the universe right the
providence that
somebody says do what you can but be
bold because providence basically will
meet you halfway i think that's what
happened
i love that man
are there any um
so i use
beliefs most people probably call them
mantras but i have like uh 25 beliefs
that
really govern how i approach my life
do you have any
beliefs or things you repeat in your
head that allow you to keep going when
things get hard
yeah i'm wearing a ring on my chest
right now and that's kind of the thing
that i
i just um
i don't know how to give up and i
i don't know how to give up now
you know let me clarify that too because
or expand on that because a lot of
people think that you know when you are
working at something and it's difficult
and as i say keep on pushing it means
that you you just kind of
keep going and and don't stop and you
keep doing the same things over and over
again and you know i say all the time
that really successful people quit all
the time
they quit on the strategy
right they quit and they
they change their plans because they
realize
this plan isn't working they don't quit
on the goal that's still out there um
and so yeah i i
the tougher it gets is honestly the the
more my spine's different
i'm like you know what i i have to
figure this out so this is not working
let's
uh you know let's think about another
route another strategy to get there so
yeah it's uh
uh and it can be from you know all of us
we feel frustration at a time and i get
frustrated by them like like
in my head i don't give myself another
option
but to succeed so
i keep on pushing
i love that are there core values or
anything that you made sure you
instilled in your kids
um
perhaps some the more
well yeah definitely yeah i
try to get them to believe in themselves
i think that's the first first thing
because without that self-belief you
can't get anything done
um work hard i i'm a believer in in hard
work
treat others kindly
um and you know don't allow and and by
the same token don't let other people
take advantage of you and so it's uh you
know the world that we live in right now
where um
um you know if you're a kid at school
and you have an issue you go to the
teacher or some guy
or girl punches you
um
and my kids believe that right and my my
wife believes that i don't
believe that i believe that you uh if he
hits you hits him back harder and so
next time he knows not to hit you you
know but
they're not there my kids aren't buying
that one from me but they're
definitely
impressive upon them treat people well
don't allow others to treat you poorly
dude i love that it's obviously super
controversial right now but yeah to me
if if somebody hits me it is um i mean
look are there circumstances where it
would be a turn the other cheap moment
yes of course but for the most part if
somebody is coming after you it's time
to stand your ground um
yeah disproportionate response as uh it
has been called i think is is a very
powerful way to move through life it's
like look i'm more than prepared to
leave you alone like i have no interest
in this whatsoever but if you bring the
fight to me you should expect a response
and a very aggressive response
and then and they'll learn and they'll
learn i mean it's one of those things
that because i
and it should be the last kind of
last
you know you know course of action you
know i spoke about when i was a teenager
growing up and we ended up in blows with
some of the guys i grew up with it was
really the last course of action and i
ignored them i took the jeering i did
all of that but then eventually i go you
know what let let's let's have a
different conversation
and so
sometimes that that is necessary i
believe controversial i agree but
sometimes very necessary it's just it's
real life man that's that's the world we
live in
too true man
where can people find out more about you
dude i i have so enjoyed my swim in your
mind
thank you mine it's great hanging out
with you
devon harris.com very easy i tell people
i'm the easiest guy in the world to find
maybe second museums to you but uh
devonhorse.com is my website at keep on
pushing 88 keep on pushing 88 the year
of the olympic first olympics
are my handlers on twitter and instagram
and of course i'm on linkedin as well so
i'm there man come find me
i love it guys all right you're
definitely going to want to dive in it's
absolutely extraordinary he's got so
much powerful advice and speaking of
amazing advice if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe here and until next
time my friends be legendary take care
you're expected to jump over the table
and and there's so that's it's going to
happen so what are you going to do to
best prepare yourself and that's kind of
that motivation of like getting to the
contest and throwing the big tricks and
seeing your competition and that
motivation and i've always loved that